 Annual
Theatre
 Utsav
      2025
    Season 3
18-19 Septb 2025
           Organized by
  Amity Sool of Languages
          Sponsored by
Indian Coc of Social Scice Resear
                (ICSSR)
Theatre Utsav   AMITY SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES
                Centre of Excellence for Promotion of Indian Knowledge System
                Organizes
                National Seminar
                On

                  Theae in Education:
                  NEP 2020 and e Role of Theae,
                  Arts and Culte in HEIs
                 (Hybd)

                 Followed by
                 Studt Theae Production

                Sponsored by
            Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR)
                in collaboration with
                Bhatkhande Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya &
                Avadh Girls’ Degree College


                 18-19 Septb 2025

            Faculty and Students are invited to participate in
                Theatre Utsav, season 3
                Link for Registration

                 https://amity.edu/lucknow/paymentgateway/TheatreUtsav2025
               Since its inception in 2023, the Annual Theatre Utsav organised by the




Concept Note
               Amity School of Languages, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
               Campus has aimed to celebrate the transformative power of theatre in
               academia and society. Continuing this enriching tradition, the 2025
               edition aspires to broaden its academic and cultural horizons by
               hosting a National Seminar, sponsored by the Indian Council for Social
               Science Research (ICSSR) on the theme Theatre in Education: NEP
               2020 and the Role of Theatre, Arts and Culture in Higher Education
               Institutions (HEIs). The seminar proposes to critically explore the
               evolving role of Indian theatrical traditions in shaping and sustaining
               the country’s socio-cultural fabric, while aligning this discourse with
               the national vision of Viksit Bharat @2047.

               The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 marks a significant
               paradigm shift in Indian education system by advocating a holistic,
               inclusive, and multidisciplinary approach. It explicitly recognises the
               importance of arts and culture, particularly theatre and performing
               arts, as key components of well-rounded education. By encouraging
               creative pedagogies, NEP 2020 empowers educational institutions to
               cultivate not only academic excellence but also emotional intelligence,
               cultural rootedness, and critical thinking among learners.

               Theatre in Education (TIE) serves as a compelling pedagogical model
               that transcends the limitations of traditional lecture-based instruction.
               It promotes experiential learning through collaboration, role-play,
               introspection, and expression, thereby enriching the academic
               journey of students and nurturing essential life skills. In the context of
               HEIs, integrating theatre and performing arts aligns with NEP 2020’s
               vision of cultivating creative, empathetic, and socially responsible
               individuals with enhanced skills, emotional intelligence, and a strong
               sense of cultural identity.


               Sinar Objectives:
                 To facilitate interdisciplinary research and dialogue on
                 the integration of theatre in contemporary higher education
                 curricula
                 To trace the contribution of Indian theatrical traditions in
                 social transformation.
                 To assess the impact of theatre on personality development
                 and holistic learning outcomes.
                 To explore the role of theatre in raising awareness and
                 action on pressing issues such as education, gender equity,
                 environmental sustainability, ethics, and social justice.
                 To promote an understanding of theatre as a pedagogic
                 tool capable of inculcating essential life skills like
                 communication, empathy, and critical thinking in students.
Sinar Highlights
                                                 Thes And Sub-es For
                                                 Pap Prestation In The Sinar:
 Academic Paper Presentations:
 Welcoming research papers and                   Scholarly and unpublished papers are invited from
 conceptual analyses from scholars,              researchers, and academicians for presentation at our
 educators, and practitioners on the
                                                 upcoming National Seminar. The seminar aims to
  role of theatre in education, pedagogy,
                                                 provide a dynamic platform for intellectual exchange,
 and social change.
                                                 critical discussion, and dissemination of innovative ideas
 Panel Discussion: The Relevance of              across disciplines. We invite submissions that align with
 Theatre in Higher Education Institutions—       the seminar theme and make a significant contribution
 featuring distinguished scholars,               to the field. Below are some of the key themes and sub-
 educationists, and theatre professionals.       themes for paper presentations:

 Student Theatre Production:
 A curated performance by university              Theatre and Holistic Education in NEP 2020
 students reflecting the pedagogical              Theatre as a Pedagogical Tool
 and social value of theatre.                     Theatre in Curriculum Development
                                                  Theatre and Communication Skills
                                                  Cultural Preservation and Promotion in HEIs
                                                  through Theatre
                                                  Theatre and Digital Integration
                                                  Digital Theatre, AI and NEP 2020 in English Education
                                                  Theatre, Multidisciplinary Learning, and Research
                                                  Theatre and Eco Criticism
                                                  Indian Knowledge System and Theatre
                                                  Theatre and Climate Change
                                                  Street Theatre and Social Change
                                                  Indian Consciousness Through Theatre
                                                  Building Life Skills Through Theatre
                                                  Management Skills Through Theatre
                                                  Indian Philosophy and Theatre
                                                  Indian Cinema and Theatre
                                                  Theatre and World Literature
                                                  Theatre, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship
                                                  Theatre for Mulya Pravah and Viksit Bharat




Who Should Participate?
 Faculty, Research Scholars, Students and Theatre Enthusiasts
 Certificates will be awarded for participation and Paper Presentation in the Seminar


 Call for Paps:
 Abstracts addressing the themes listed above are invited; however, submissions are not limited to
 these themes and may explore related or broader topics.
 Abstracts and Full Papers may be forwarded to agupta2@lko.amity.edu, mjohri@amity.edu
 All submissions will undergo a rigorous peer-review process, and only selected papers will be
 considered for publication in the conference proceedings with ISBN
Authors are accountable for the originality, validity and integrity of the content of their
submissions. Authors using AI tools are expected to do so responsibly and in accordance with
principles of publishing ethics.
Plagiarism and AI usage beyond 10% in research papers will not be accepted for publication


Absact and Pap Formatting Detas
Word limit for Abstract submission: 200- 250 words
Word limit for Full Paper submission: 2500-4000 words
Font Style: Times New Roman
Font Size :Text 12-point, Title and Headings :14, Line Spacing :Double, Author’s bio note: 10
Citations: MLA 9th Edition

Deadlines to Rb
Submission of the Abstract: 10th August 2025
Submission of Full Paper: 25th August 2025
Registration for Theatre Utsav Link: https://amity.edu/lucknow/paymentgateway/TheatreUtsav2025

Resation Fee
Fee for Faculty and Professionals: Rs. 500/-
Fee for Research Scholars: Rs.200/-
Fee for Student: Rs.150/-
Boarding and Lodging will be provided subject to availability

Mode of Paymt
 Registration Link: https://amity.edu/lucknow/paymentgateway/TheatreUtsav2025


                                                   Sinar Committee
                            ief Paon                                              Paon




                           Dr. Ashok K. Chauhan                              Dr. Aseem Chauhan
           Founder President, Ritnand Balved Education Foundation                 Chairman,
                    (The Foundation of Amity Institutions              Amity University, Lucknow Campus
               and the Sponsoring Body of Amity Universities)

                           ief Advisor                                        Co-Advisor




                        Prof. (Dr.) Anil Vashisht                    Wg. Cdr. Prof. (Dr.) Anil Kumar (Retd.)
                           Pro Vice Chancellor                      Deputy Pro Vice Chancellor & Director ASET
                      Amity University Uttar Pradesh                     Amity University Uttar Pradesh
                            Lucknow Campus                                      Lucknow Campus
                                                  Sinar airpson




                                                        Prof. Dr. Kum Kum Ray
                                                  Director, Amity School of Languages
                                                     Amity University Uttar Pradesh
                                                            Lucknow Campus

                                              Organising Committee
                            Convor                           Co-Convor                       Organising Seetary




                         Dr. Manjari Johri             Prof. (Dr.) Satyarth Prakash Tripathi             Dr. ABR Prasad
                        Assistant Professor                 Chief Proctor and Professor                Associate Professor,
                     Amity School of Languages              Amity School of Languages             Amity School of Languages
                     Email ID: mjohri@amity.edu         Email ID: sptripathi@lko.amity.edu      Email ID: arprasad@lko.amity.edu
                      Contact No: 9161053575                  Contact No: 7376237707               Contact No: 9899574196


                                                                                                                    Inarge Studts
   Correspondce                        Theae Production                           Treas                            and Guests




       Dr. Archana Gupta                     Dr. Rohit Yadav                       Ms. Trupti Mishra                      Dr. Farhan Saiel
       Assistant Professor                  Assistant Professor,                   Assistant Professor                   Assistant Professor
  Amity School of Languages            Amity School of Languages              Amity School of Languages             Amity School of Languages
Email ID: agupta2@lko.amity.edu      Email ID: ryadav3@lko.amity.edu        Email ID: tmishra@lko.amity.edu       Email ID: mfsaiel@lko.amity.edu
   Contact No: 8687327232               Contact No: 98078 21846                Contact No: 9696403933                Contact No: 8090479075




                        Steing Committee
       Ms. Shraddha Srivastava                    Dr. Saumya Srivastava                                     Photo Credit
          Dr. Bratish Sarkar                       Dr. Rashi Srivastava                                  Suresh Kumar Sahu
        Mr. Saurabh Banerjee                          Ms. Kashish Raj                                 Sr. Campus Photographer
           Ms. Nishu Sinha                          Mr. Rishav Aryan                               Amity School of Communication
          Ms. Farheen Syed                           Mr. Sushil Kumar                             Amity University Lucknow Campus
Glimpses of Theae
   Productions by
Mimesis Theae Club
              AMITY UNIVERSITY
                  LUCKNOW CAMPUS
Amity University Uttar Pradesh Lucknow Campus (AUUP) is built on a
foundation which embodies on the qualities that have made Amity
Institutions world-class over the last two decades. Amity has instituted
global standards in education, training, and research with world-class
infrastructure and the latest teaching methodologies. With the mission
to train future leaders of the corporate world, the University strives to
blend modernity with tradition in each of its student. AUUP has been
accredited by NAAC with A+ grade, and by Western Association of
Schools and Colleges (WASC), USA.
