            Two - Day International Conference on Translation Studies




                                         Call for Papers
           Translating Across Genres: Practices & Challenges (TAG-PC)

                               Dates: 03 – 04 November 2025

                                 Amity School of Languages

                       Amity University Rajasthan, Jaipur, India


Conference Overview: With globalization and digital media, the demand for specialized
translation has grown exponentially. This conference addresses the need for tailored approaches to
ensure accuracy, cultural relevance, and functional effectiveness across genres. The International
Conference on Translation Studies with the theme, Translating Across the Genres, invites scholars,
researchers, practitioners, and students to explore the latest developments, challenges, and
innovations in the field of translation and interpreting in the era of digitalisation. This
interdisciplinary conference aims to foster discussions on theoretical, practical, and technological
advancements in translation, bridging academia and industry. This international conference
celebrates the diversity of translation across all genres and specializations, from literary and
technical translation to multimedia localization and AI-driven solutions. The International
Conference on Translating across Genres: Practices & Challenges is a great platform that
promises to bring together scholars, translators, linguists, and industry professionals to discuss the
complexities of translating different genres—such as literary, technical, legal, medical, audiovisual,
and digital texts. We invite translators, researchers, educators, and industry professionals to share
insights, challenges, and innovations that define the multifaceted world of translation today.
Submissions on a wide range of key themes and subtopics but not limited to the following are
welcome:

   •    Literary Translation: Fiction, poetry, drama, graphic novels
   •    Scientific Translation: Scholarly work across disciplines
   •   Audiovisual Translation: Subtitling, dubbing, voice-over, translation for theatre.
   •   Artificial Intelligence and Translation: Computer-Assisted Translation
   •   Business & Marketing Translation: Advertisements, annual reports,corporate
       communications
   •   Journalistic Translation: Navigating media bias and culturally sensitive topics.
   •   Multilingualism and Language Politic
   •   Translating the Digital: Localizing websites, social media content, memes, and marketing
       campaigns; Transcreating slogans and brand identities.
   •   Translation and Technology: Ethics, accessibility, disciplinary discourse.
Submission Guidelines & Dates

1. Abstracts:250-300 words in English or (other accepted languages)

2. Full Papers (optional): 3500 - 4000 Word limit, APA 7th Edition.

4. Deadline for Abstracts: 15/09/2025

5. Notification of Acceptance: 30/09/2025

6. Full paper submission: 15/10/2025

7. Submission: Submit via email: internationalconferenceasl@gmail.com

Registration Fees

 Amitians                        Non – Amitians:                  International

 Professionals and               Professionals and
 Academicians – Rs. 1000/-       Academicians – 1000/- +
                                 18% GST                               35 $
 Research Scholars and           Research Scholars and
 students: Rs. 800/-             students: Rs. 800/- + 18%
                                 GST
                                     QR Code for Payment
Publication Opportunity

Selected papers will be considered for publication in SCOPUS indexed journal (subject to peer
review).

Contact details and information:

Convenor:

Prof Dipa Chakrabarti
HOI, Amity School of Languages
Amity University Rajasthan
dchakrabarti@jpr.amity.edu
9772557726

Coordinators:

Dr Manoj Kumar
Assistant Professor
Amity School of Languages
mkumar1@jpr.amity.edu
9352759928

Prof Parul Mishra
Amity School of Languages
pmishra@jpr.amity.edu
9116997632

Website: https://tag-pc.in/
